# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

__Date:__ 2017-09-25

__Time:__ 13:00 & 21:00 UTC

## Co-Chairs

- Jamie Hadwin (1st)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)

## Attending

- Jamie Hadwin (1st meeting)
- Paula Andrea (2nd meeting)
- Toby Hodges (1st)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)
- David Yakobovitch (2nd)
- Juan Steyn (2nd)
- Mark Laufersweiler (2nd)
- Christina Koch (2nd)
- Belinda Weaver (2nd)
- Tracy Teal (2nd)


## Actions/Resolutions

- MS to put discussion session survey google form in mentoring google drive

## Minutes

### Introductions

### Recap from last meeting

#### Training or Steering Committees updates from last meeting

- Training: 
  - open instructor training for areas without large Carpentries presence
  - releasing new instructor training materials
- Steering: 
  - merger updates - https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/08/mergermotions.html
  - committees will have point staff person

#### CarpentryCon updates

http://pad.software-carpentry.org/2018carpentrycontaskforce

#### Discussion sessions

- Mentoring Committee Challenge:
  - All on the committee should challenge themselves to host one session a month
  - All on the committee should challenge a friend to participate in one discussion session a month
- Sign up format
  - Suggest to open another slot for a pre/post-workshop participant
  - European morning sessions? Mateusz & Toby
    - Ad-hoc sessions???
  - Could debrief participants lead the discussion??? Maybe after 3 debriefs, move them to discussion host as next step --> future next step, move to trainer (participating in discussion sessions, hosting sessions, mentoring committee as a way toward becoming a trainer)
  - Checkouts as note-takers?

#### Task force:

- Survey:
  - What will we do with results?
  - Plan to share through casual methods (social media, slack, AMY email lists (discussion list), Toby to write a blog post)
  - Encourage people to also sign up for calendar and Slack/social media

#### Discussion Coordinator - Volunteer position

- Some interest from Paula on 1st call - Paula and Jamie working on onboarding document for this role (link to be posted)

#### Getting community more engaged/participating in instructor discussion sessions

- Some kind of credit system? Rewarding those who host/co-host (i.e. through a monthly drawing)

### Main Agenda Items

#### Updates from liaisons

- __Training Committee (Erin):__
  - Karen Word has now joined as the Deputy Director of Instructor Training. Karen will be leading a new group of Trainers through training in the next few months. 
  - The new instructor training materials have now gone live. This is the link from the website: http://swcarpentry.github.io/instructor-training/ 
  - The Trainer's group has increased to running 3 teaching demos per week (rather than 3).
  - The Trainer's group is now running Spanish-only teaching demos each month.

###### First Meeting

- TH: get with MK about European morning sessions to possibly add a "3rd" ad-hoc sessions - reach out to some European instructors

###### Second Meeting

- CK will bring up at next meeting: new group of trainers to help with the instructor discussions
- Business meeting is this week - hopefully within the next month (Hopefully sooner)

#### Steering Committee (no updates)

- CK: Software and Data Carpentries are merging together.  There's a blogpost and request for comments.  Lessons specific task force. 
  - Merger blog post: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/09/merger.html
  - Requests for Comment: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/09/rfc.html
  - SWC lesson task force: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/09/swc-lessons.html

#### Mentoring Program

https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring-program 

- JH - any updates on Mentoring Program? If Belinda or Kari on call? I know things are coming up soon on this, and I believe Belinda made announcement this past week or next week - all I know is the important dates/applications and that there should be/has been an announcement!
- Important Dates: 8 Week program 
  - Carpentries Mentoring Program: October 23 - January 9, 2017
  - Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting: September 25th
  - Mentoring Program Info Session: October 2nd
  - Mentor & Mentee Applications Open: October 2nd
  - Mentor & Mentee Applications Close: October 16th
  - Mentoring Groups Matched: October 23rd
  - Mid-Program Touch Base: November 27th
  - Mentoring Program Virtual Showcase: January 8th
- Applications:
  - Mentor: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeXy0994S0wy0IYi6Nv1HF9cwENsiSFLy8-2E_RI803M9zCzw/viewform
  - Mentee: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScA9sfmM1gJhkJEn5GDpowUu_QSV-7gDrTCoWHoLOvdukuVBw/viewform

###### First Meeting

- JH: I've already applied to be a mentor - very quick application process
- TH: would like to do this now that have had more experience
- JH: same here! wasn't as comfortable being a mentor last year

###### Second Meeting

- BW: Belinda and Kari are organizing and will be hosting an information session in October.  It will be a round 2 of last years program. 
- BW: Will be emailing people who have taught at least 2 workshops for mentors
  - A bit more targeted for specific lessons, or becoming a lesson maintainer, or people who want to build communities
  - Different flavors of mentoring offered for different interest
  - 8 week program
  - Will be an announcement on Tuesday, more emails going out soon
- TT: Erin was the Round 1 of the program. 
  - Feedback from the last round: people felt like they weren't "mentors" or "mentees". It'll be more topic specific and allow people to mentor each other (to avoid categorization of mentor and mentee)
- CK: People in their mentoring group were more interested in developing lessons and not as much about teaching. 
- CK: also lost steam as time went on -- not sure what to talk about
- TT: hopefully the "topics" will help set what things to talk about
- Docs from Belinda: 
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/11Pf19Ui8pczJT_VjgnC9vvvhsVUJPJ1m4a1vUMLUNZ4/edit
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zgo5yoNr3tKGifMX52F2AKfwCrxQcLsAHGm6cLtQOXo/edit
- MS: How can mentoring committee meeting help support this program?
  - Add an announcement on the etherpad, announce in discussion sessions
  - Maybe explicitly add to the instructor discussion etherpad?
  - Mention to people when it comes up!
  - Encourage people to think of themselves as something to contribute
- TT: Kari will be emailing the mentoring committee soon with details and room for feedback. Timeline was pushed back to help integrate the mentoring committee. 
- ML: Champions program for foundation members that are active locally. 
- BW: The idea is to give these members local support and building strong chapters of carpentry around the world. 
  - News letter will be out at 9am EST!

#### How are the discussion sessions going?

- __Recruiting October/November discussion leaders!__ http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
  - October only needs co-hosts! All host slots filled - awesome! Can we help recruit a new person with onboarding document?
  - Please reach out to people who you think might want to get involved in co-hosting
  - November needs hosts if you want to look ahead that far!

###### First Meeting

- JH: I was approached by someone new who ended up co-hosting on a session in September;  I am going to reach out to them again! They seemed excited about joining as a co-host on future calls and possibly being paired with a more experienced host as a "discussion session mentor"
- TH: have an upcoming discussion session that is overflowing with checking out trainees
- JH: hoping that explicit mention of discussion sessions in instructor training can help to coordinate the timing of signups
- TH: a few ad-hoc european morning slots could help to clear some of the current backlog, but will need more hosts for sessions in the long-term
- JH: hopefully we can recruit some more hosts. has been discussion of requiring involvement in discussion sessions for someone to become an instructor trainer. Spanish language sessions may also help to spread out the audience. Need to find a way to reach out to the target audience for european ad-hoc sessions, to make them aware of the availability of (possibly) more suitable sessions
- TH: asking for volunteer notetaker could free up hosts, but might result in only one experienced instructor on call
- JH: also not advertised like this to trainees when they sign up. I like to email the people signing up for post-workshop debrief to suggest that they co-host. Include link to onboarding document. Did get one person to start to co-host recently, so it works!

###### Second Meeting

- BW: Notetakers and meeting hosts work well, however, when there are no meeting hosts there's a lot on the host "charlie chaplin in modern times". Back in the day people had to write notes themselves and now people should do notes themselves. We should expect more of the people coming
- PA: Last time the discussion with Jamie, they discussed to open the cohost slot to help with the notes. The other thing: Paula was in a session where people took turns and it worked well with everyone contributing. 
- MS: What worked well to encourage people to write.
- PA: People volunteered based on the number they were in the attendance list.
- BW: Tiffany timbers would have prompted questions in the etherpad and have people answer in the etherpad.
- JS: Encourage people while checking out to type out questions in the etherpad. 
- CK: People were typing instead of talking, important to balance who is taking notes and who is talking
- PA: are we doing anything with the notes?  MS: previously, notes were being analyzed, still trying to decide what to do with them
- TT: People shouldn't count on notes staying there as a reference.  They do get cleared because we keep using the same one.  
- JS: discussion session is also a way to show how the etherpad can be effectively used and practice using it. Encourage people to put links in from their side as well. 
- MS: proposal underway to summarize data from notes, maybe using something like a form
- ML: notetaker vs number of checkouts 
Ask someone to take notes and if not (ideally someone who is debriefing) and if still no go down the list of checkouts 
- DY: Helper 3 times before going through teacher training and stack overflow was great helper as well
- MS: notetaker can be an "entrance" role for people
- BW: fine to leave the notetaker there, but *also* have members of the group take notes
- JS: maybe do a sticky note system on the etherpad, ask for feedback at the end of the discussion on how it went


- __New sign-up format__ - 4 slots for checkouts, 2 slots for post-workshop/debriefs - email host if session is full
  - Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
  - A recent instructor trainee suggested during busy checkout times that more slots should be added
  - Should we go ahead and move to 8 slots instead of 6?

###### First Meeting

- JH: like the idea brought up during afternoon meeting in August about having participating in discussion sessions as co-hosts/hosts as a step to becoming a trainer

###### Second Meeting

- BW: A few extra people in a call but then someone didn't show up so it wasn't an issue.
It's hard to get a slot, it's desperate in a good way. If you have too many people it's still possible but might now
- MS: Maybe encourage checkouts to write the questions in the etherpad and the host can do a quick prioritization of the questions. 
- BW: Have people who are there come up with their own answer to help encourage the mentoring discussion rather than expect the host to mentor everyone else. 
- CK: Takes this approach too to open the answer up to the room of people. 
- ML: How to be adaptable? Contribute to the conversation on top of the head. 
- BW: It's a good thing to show your blunders, to make you more human and relatable.  Good to not present as totally smooth + easy!  Mistakes are the pedagogy!
- BW: When will the survey be ready? Google form should be easy
- TT: Use a google form for now but as we 
- Marian will put google form in mentoring google drive
- DY: Has anyone used typeform?

#### Spanish language (and other time zone) discussion sessions/community

###### First meeting

- JH: Could also be like the European ad-hoc sessions starting off with Raniere & Juan & Paula were interested - had someone in a discussion session ask about this - Jamie needs to connect them with Raniere

###### Second Meeting

- Belinda is willing to schedule an australian instructor discussions herself
- Paula can help out with this one!
- Juan is also available to host the session as well
- MLS: Toby and Mateusz 

#### Contributing to the Carpentries repo: https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring

###### First Meeting

- JH: Would be good to have more discussion of how we can improve and add to this new repo for the subcommittee in the coming weeks.
- TH: I should have more time to devote to this now
- JH: Need to get with MK/EB on starting this back up again

###### Second Meeting

- MS: Encouraged people to modify the repo if they feel inclined

#### Becoming more engaged with mentoring subcommittee

- Paula expressed interest in the Discussion Session Coordinator volunteer position - already working with Jamie on this
Other ways people may like to become more involved?

###### First Meeting

- JH: should we also use mentoring committee as a way to encourage people to join a community of folks who want to help with discussion sessions? I don't think we've really been marketing/promoting it this way - thoughts? we usually end up talking about the discussion sessions every meeting anyway!
- TH: I mention this in my (not yet published) blogpost, though maybe not explicitly. I can add this. A good way to make it easy for people to then sign up as a silent observer on sessions. and meet the people who are hosting sessions already - can help them meet someone who they may want to co-host
- TH: BTW blogpost is pretty much ready, but waiting for the discussion sessions survey.
- JH: I haven't had a chance to speak to Marian, but Belinda has the survey ready to go, so it should be distributed soon. Just needs to be put into desired format and shared. Need to consider a strategy for how to get people who aren't involved in the discussion sessions to still fill in the survey.

#### Future Task Force Project: 

- Questionnaire: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session

###### First Meeting

- JH: contribute ideas about what a host may fill out after a discussion session - don't want to overwhelm them
  - One main positive from the session - one main challenge issue from the session - anyone you feel may be interested or good to approach about becoming more involved in the Carpentries (variety of ways)
- TH - put checkouts in the same form so they're doing all once

#### Previous Task Force Projects - Updates:

- Survey
  - Short survey gauging why people do or don't come to discussion sessions; what would make them more likely to come (content, timing for example)
  - Update: working with a few people to get survey out very soon! 

__Mentoring Committee onboarding doc has been posted:__ https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/blob/master/onboarding-document.md

