# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 10/04/2015

Time: 5pm GMT
(check https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2015&month=4&day=10&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=137&p2=64&p3=179&p4=233&p5=136&p6=187)

How to connect:
https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/event/cnek18pco5a50l2ktk9tj2j9pqc

## Attending

-   Bill Mills
-   Daniel Chen
-   Karin Lagesen
-   Raniere Silva
-   Sheldon McKay

## Apologies

-   Kate Hertweck
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Actions/Resolutions

-   BM, KH, KL, RS: Debriefing Session on April 10
-   RS: Update agenda to include next debriefing sessions

## Minutes

### Past Actions

-   RS: create calendar with meetings, debriefing sessions and others activities

    Done but need improvements. https://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=2q7h0fqsmti7k0mi21jh1jaqb4%40group.calendar.google.com

-   RS and TT: coordinate next debriefing session in the morning

    https://etherpad.mozilla.org/swc-debriefing-morning (link out of date)

-   RH and BM: coordinate next debriefing session in the afternoon

    https://etherpad.mozilla.org/swc-debriefing-evening (link out of date)

-   TT: write warning note for debriefing session mention the use of it for the blog post

    Done. https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/26

-   RS: create email for private feedbacks from workshops

    Done. http://lists.software-carpentry.org/pipermail/instructors_lists.software-carpentry.org/2015-March/000112.html

-   BM: write draft proposal for "Micro Workshop"

    Done. https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/27

-   TT: ask Greg about the screen record of how to setup workshop homepages.

    Screen record of how to setup workshops now lives at: http://swcarpentry.github.io/slideshows/creating-website/index.html#slide-0

    It can be accessed directly from the Lessons page.

-   KL will write proposal for mentorship guidelines/program

    KL will write a mentoring guideline proposal.

-   RS: form for next meeting

    Done.

### Debriefing Sessions

-   Last week session

    Thanks to Tiffany: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/03/instructor-debriefing-2015-03-24.html

-   April 14 session

    Morning

    -   Karin Lagesen
    -   Raniere Silva

    Evening

    -   Bill Mills
    -   Kate Hertweck

-   April 28, May 12 and May 26

    RS will try to improve Google Calendar.

-   Private information

    Steering Committee will take care of this.

### Change the name from Mentoring to Engagement

-   This was proposed by Greg at last Steering Committee Meeting.

    We, the Mentoring Subcommittee, have the final answer at this decision.

    SM: The discussion of branding here kind of muddies the waters for me with respect to the specific charge of this subcommittee, and how that relates to the other subcommittees.  

-   Options:

    -   Mentoring

        Suggested by Steering Committe

    -   Engagement

        Suggested by GW

        Sheldon likes this (but wants 'instructor' in front of XXX subcommittee)  .

        BM: Sounds like more Silicon Vally and business. (This is subjective -- I don't get a corporate read)

    -   Community

        Suggested by KL

        KL: community suggests bi-directed communication

        SM: Didn't like it vague.

        BM: Sound likes more a non-profit.

    BM, SM: We need to be careful not to bloat the scope of this committee and we should stay focused on 'mentoring' new instructors, and things like lesson materials and bloat and informing instructors should be diverted to another sub-committee or even to the lesson maintainers

    -   Action Item [RS}: Send a email to Greg and them to mailing list and more discussion on next meeting.

    -   Action Item [RS]: Write a good description for the subcommittee.

### Instructor Training

https://swcarpentry.github.io/training-course/2015/03/john-moreau-motivation/

Related with Git Tutorial, next topic.

If Greg attended this meeting he can give more details.

KL: What is wrong to ask people to go with the material that we have wrote? And setup a mailing list and teams. SM(+1)+1

BM: Request that people go to the lessons at Melbourne Instructor Training.

KL: Want the new instructor read the text, type the commands.

BM: This is more a homework.

SM: Why instructors be preparead for only one unit.

BM: At some workshops some instrutors only taught one session.

BM: Try to give experience for instrutors made it teach on

RS: We don't cover Pull Request! Yeah, I always stick PRs in the lesson

KL: Maybe change the lesson.

Action Item [KL]: Write proposal.

### Git Tutorial

-   Alex' session

    RS and KL attended it.

    From RS perspective was great.

    KL loved it! got answers to a lot of things I had been wrestling with.

-   Zbigniew's session

    RS attended it.

    RS had to backup Zbigniew due technical problems with the screenshare, https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=413942. Worked fine with Firefox.

    Students were shy.

-   Aaron's session

    http://lists.software-carpentry.org/pipermail/mentoring_lists.software-carpentry.org/2015-March/000048.html

    "I think this would be ok if everyone was asking the same questions or I was working to a syllabus. As it was, I found it hard to address everyone's questions at the level that they were asking them.

-   Trevor's session

    http://lists.software-carpentry.org/pipermail/mentoring_lists.software-carpentry.org/2015-March/000050.html

    I feel like we were more productive with asynchronous email-based back and forth that we did before the live session.

-   Ivan's session

    Great feedback from someone at instructor trainning: https://swcarpentry.github.io/training-course/2015/04/Round12Talkpage/

-   Timothée's session

    Any one attended it?

-   Matt's session

    Any one attended it?

-   Filipe's session


    Any one attended it?

### "Micro" Workshop

This is Bill proposed, https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/27

RS: Postponed to next meeting.

BM: At the proposal experience instructors will watch.

### First Workshop Helping Session

RM: Postponed

### Study new instructor experience

-   From past meeting

    BM: How much our instructors are prepared? Students like the instructor training but they don't know what to do on the first workshop. Can we measure what blocks new instructors?

    DC: for instructors who have not taught a workshop, how many of those have seen a workshop? either as a helper or as an attendee?

-   How many people now have instructor badges?

    334

-   How many people are instructors but have never taught?

    125

-   How many people are instructors but have never been helpers or learners?

    183

-   How many people are instructors but have never taught and have never been a helper or learner?

    78

BM: Problems are geography and confidence. Start with the micro lesson to build confidence and if this numbers down.

DC: confidence can be addressed by having them teach a micro lesson

SM: This assumes they want to teach

KL: We need that our instructors sell us to institutions. We need to teach people how do that. The micro lesson cover that.

RS: There is the question that some lesson are longer than the time new instructors have.

KL: Tell people to cut the lesson didn't help novice instructors.

BM: Use the "extras".

SM: I think it more a matter of managing expectations, rather than expecting things to fit. This falls under mentoring instructors, no?

KL suggests: feed this info to lesson subcommittee and ask them to think about it

### Instructor Retention

-   Would like to get a quantitative picture of how long (in terms of time and number of workshops) we retain instructors for.

    -   Assigned to Raniere since this need Steering Committee approval.

-   First step: assemble statistics. Ideally, I'd like a count of how many badged instructors have taught 1,2,3,...n workshops, with related time windows.

    -   Should be available from past record keeping.

-   Down the road: start investigating 'exit stories': for people that actively chose to leave, why did they leave? For people who would like to participate more than they are, what are the hurdles?

-   On a related note: what stops instructors from participating on email lists, lab meetings etc? A feeling of community and involvement is important for retention.

-   Action Item [DC]: Get info from Assessment subcommittee.

### Instructor Upskilling

-   Many instructors come to SWC not comfortable teaching all of our topics. What is the learning pathway for them to upgrade their skills so they can teach the whole syllabus?

    I would love for us to do hangouts with "Ask an instructor" sessions. The instructor would prepare a 10 minute thing where he/she tells how they prepare the material for a given module and how they teach it, and then people could ask anything they wanted about that module. Could be a once-per-month thing, with alternating time zones. Would also help keeping instructors waiting to teach "warm".

-   I (daniel) was working on a post workshop instructor survey.  The goal was to collect data on what instructors teach, what went well, what didn't, etc...

    it's one of the TODO items in the assessment committee
