# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

__Date:__ 2017-10-23

__Time:__ 13:00 & 21:00 UTC

## Co-Chairs

- Jamie Hadwin (1st)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)

## Attending

- Toby Hodges (1st)
- Jamie Hadwin (1st)
- Kari L. Jordan (1st + 2nd)
- Christina Koch (1st + 2nd)
- Juan Steyn (2nd)
- Paula Andrea Martinez (2nd)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)

## Actions/Resolutions

- TH to discuss frequency of European morning discussion sessions with Mateusz and Raniere. Agree on future schedule, coordinate on getting sessions added to calendar.

## Minutes

### Introductions

### Recap from last meeting

#### Training or Steering Committees updates from last meeting

- __Training__: Karen Word has now joined as the Deputy Director of Instructor Training; the new instructor training materials have now gone live (http://swcarpentry.github.io/instructor-training/ ) ; the Trainer's group has increased to running 3 teaching demos per week (rather than 3); the Trainer's group is now running Spanish-only teaching demos each month.
- __Steering__: Merger updates -  there's a blogpost (https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/09/merger.html ) and request for comments (https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/09/rfc.html ).  Lessons specific task force (https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/09/swc-lessons.html ). 

#### Mentoring Program

- Applications:
  - Mentor: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeXy0994S0wy0IYi6Nv1HF9cwENsiSFLy8-2E_RI803M9zCzw/viewform
  - Mentee: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScA9sfmM1gJhkJEn5GDpowUu_QSV-7gDrTCoWHoLOvdukuVBw/viewform

#### Discussion sessions

- Reach out to people who you may think will be interested in co-hosting
- Ways to encourage people to take notes/engage on etherpad during discussions
- New/alternative sessions: Spanish-language (Raniere/Juan) and Australian (Belinda/Paula)

#### Carpentries repo

https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring

#### Task force

- Survey:
  - What will we do with results?
  - Plan to share through casual methods (social media, slack, AMY email lists (discussion list), Toby to write a blog post)
  - Encourage people to also sign up for calendar and Slack/social media

#### Discussion Coordinator - Volunteer position

- Some interest from Paula on 1st call - Paula and Jamie working on onboarding document for this role (link to be posted)

#### Getting community more engaged/participating in instructor discussion sessions

- Some kind of credit system? Rewarding those who host/co-host (i.e. through a monthly drawing)

### Main Agenda Items

#### Updates from liaisons

- __Training Committee__ (Erin)
  - Applications were open for new trainers

- __Steering Committee__ (Christina)
  - Merger process going forward
  - January 1st, 2018 (governing board or the new combined organization)
  - ~4 appointed, 3 elected https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/10/call-new-joint-board.html
  - Still need people voted onto the board of the new merged organisation - announcement/call for nominations went out last week
  - Working on what sub-organisations will look like
  - If you have thoughts on either of these, please get in touch with Christina
  - Question from steering committee: __if we replaced the scheduling etherpad w/ a different tool, what features would you want?__  

###### First Meeting

- Kari: what are the issues? A lot of scrolling?
- CK: yes, this and timeszones and so on
- TH: Discussion sessions get overfull; it's hard to contact people.  Having a way to truly limit the discussion session might be helpful. 
- CK: some people might not be comfortable posting emails - could be helpful to have a way for people to provide them more privately
- JH: some way of having those permanent slots, with integrated calendar. Had a recent session that was missing several people. Reminders might be nice.
- CK: maybe we could have reminders? Currently calendar slots aren't integrated with etherpad setup.

###### Second Meeting



- Want to know who is going to be there -- who's hosting, which spots are empty or full
- People can sign up + not have a lot of information associated w/ their name.  Can't contact people
- Maybe we could look at a tool with a link to “remind me” host / co-hosts / participants could schedule a reminder for themselves to a particular email adress


- __Mentoring Program__ (Kari Jordan): https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/tree/master/mentoring-program

###### First meeting

- KJ: 18 mentor, 28 mentee applications. First time around, we had ~100 total. I had planned to organise groups this week, but have extended the deadline and trying to get the word out more now to make sure that everone is aware of it. Any ideas for how I could do one more big push? Got good feedback on the changes to the program, so was expecting more applications. Timetable will be flexible.
- JH: maybe we can promote during the upcoming discussion sessions
- Toby, Christina, Erin all hosting sessions in the next few days.
- CK: did you email the trainers list?
- KJ: I did.
- CK: People on that list are quite proactive for reaching out to their communities
- KJ: targeted communication is much better than _en masse_. So if people have specific people they can reach out to, that would be good. Experienced instructors can benefit too.
- JH: from the respondents, how many of them are subcommittee members/actively engaged with the organisation already?
- KJ: about half-and-half
- JH: wondering what motivated the people who aren't already actively engaged?
- KJ: seeing a lot of people who want to learn more about workshop organisation
- JH: and the interest of mentee applicants?
- KJ: teaching and organising workshops
- CK: when do you need applications by? The end of the week?
- KJ: Yes. I said that I'd send out group information this Wednesday, but should be ok to add a few new people to groups a few days later.
- JH: encourage subcommittee members, co-maintainers etc, to reach out to people in their local communities/network
- TH: would be good to have a way for people to register interest in mentoring program for future rounds
- KJ: I know it's going to great. :+1: :+1:

###### Second Meeting

- Kari is going to be updating the mentoring committee Github repo to help incorporate the mentoring program and the mentoring committee 
- How many people are attending instructor discussions sessions? 
- Send email to Erin or Maneesha and ask about Host questionnaire 
- How to send out Community Questionnaire?
  - twitter
  - emails invitations for discussion sessions
  - newsletter
  - JS: I'll do our internal google group in Africa
- How long to share the community questionnaire about instructor discussions?
- Before holiday season = have data 
- Few weeks of feedback = now till early november 
- send survey mid november

- JS: Change the focus of discussion sessions on discussions (currently it's geared towards instructor checkout). We could have topics for discussion, rather than an agenda
- JS: Host discussions on specific topics? And find ways to motivate people to come back
- KJ: Answers before the holiday season and start the new year off with any changes that might need to be made.  This could also tie into the merger and when the merger happens it can help inform new structures.
- Instructor host questionnarie:
  - JS: In an email to the committee, an option that we're piloting 
  - ****** Email response to yourself.
  - MS:  Before November meeting, feedback for a few weeks before then, implement after November meeting

#### How are the discussion sessions going?

- __Recruiting November/December discussion leaders!__ http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
  - Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
  - Please reach out to people who you think might want to get involved in co-hosting

###### First meeting

- JH: noticed that sessions in the last month have been a little less busy. Had an interesting group of four recently - all statisticians. All very interested in community building
- JH: should be good to share with frequent hosts that they might expect another push of people joining the sessions

- __Ad-hoc sessions: European and Spanish-language sessions__

###### First Meeting

- TH: quickly got first European morning sessions added - hadn't had a lot of response yet and lots of UK/African still signed up for less suitable times, they probably just aren't aware the new ad-hoc sessions are popping up
- TH: no way of accessing AMY to contact that community - is there a better way of going through a process of making these sessions more publicized - I think it's good to offer these sessions :+1:
- CK: start-up cost involved: people need time to notice that these sessions are scheduled and available. Should definitely get them on the calendar.
- JH: I think people need to be individually given permission to edit the calendar.
- CK: announcement in the email that we're piloting new Europe/Africa/etc-friendly times.
- JH: Toby and Mateusz should have a call to discuss future schedule etc, then we can get it on the calendar, and do some email announcements etc
- JH: I'd be happy to help try to get these in the calendar through the end of the year (although Mateusz probably can if he has time) - just need to know when you all want to have these scheduled and frequency
- CK: Putting it in Carpentry Clippings is a good way to announce them
- TH: I'll send a mail to Mateusz, and Raniere too, to discuss and agree on frequency.

- __Encouraging help with taking notes/contributing on etherpad__

###### First Meeting

- JH: a few of us have suggested encouraging the experienced instructors at sessions to take notes. Have encouraged people on recent calls to contribute. I did notice an increase in uptake for this.
- CK: not sure if I've tried this. But Toby and I will try this tomorrow.
- JH: I have my own template for hosting a session, to make sure that I don't miss anything out e.g. Zoom guidance, note-taking/etherpad guidance, general guidance on contributions
- KJ: I've found this really helpful for the teaching demo sessions, but I've never tried it for the discussion sessions. Will definitely try it next time.
- JH: helps alleviate the pressure on the attendees and note-taker. On that recent call with the small group, I had to do quite a lot of talking, and another attendee jumped in and took notes for me then.


#### Becoming more engaged with mentoring subcommittee

- Paula has started doing the weekly emails for the Discussion Session Coordinator role
  - JH: I'll email her after this to ask her to include info about the European morning discussion sessions in the email template
- Jamie will be stepping down as co-chair toward the end of the year for medical reasons

###### First Meeting

- JH: Will be talking with Christina, Marian, Kari & Belinda within next two weeks to discuss future for co-chair and mentoring committee/program integration
- TH: On standby to help however needed :+1:

###### Second Meeting

- Juan: Revisit the wishlist before the end of the year 
- Juan: Do a challenge --> invite a fellow instructor into the instructor discussions. Revisit this before the holiday.

#### Task Force Project

Questionnaire: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session

###### First Meeting

- JH: Marian working with Belinda to get this ready for distribution.
- CK: excited to see the questionnaire. Having some feedback from the discussion sessions could be useful to inform e.g. current ongoing discussion about lesson content etc
- JH: once the shared document has been made public, will share with everyone.

### Walk-ons

###### First Meeting

- KJ: I'm going to be making some pull requests this week to the mentoring repository, with materials relating to the mentoring program. Updating some of the language surrounding the subcommittee and the program and how the two fit together. It will be good for you to take a look at these.
- JH: sounds good. We'll make a note to take a look at these when they're submitted. Does everyone have the new repo address? Make sure to watch for notifications!
  - https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring
