# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

* Date: Monday, May 2nd
* First Round:10:00 EDT (New York time)  (14:00 UTC)
* Second Round: 19:00 EDT (New York time) (23:00 UTC)

* Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

* Attending (First round)
	* Christina Koch
	* Rayna Harris
	* Marian Schmidt 
	* Maneesha Sane

* Attending (Second round)
	* Kate Hertweck 
	* Tiffany Timbers
	* Raniere Silva


## Agenda

* Confirm agenda
* Recap since past meetings
* Main agenda items
	* New discussion sections
		* How did last week go? 
		* Instructor trainees had plenty to say
		* Debriefing first helps
		* Questions about procedure?
		* Need someone for tomorrow morning
	* Instructor training "guides" proposal
		* Summary of where we are: approved, handed over to Belinda, Aleksandra, Tracy
		* Linking with https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/58/files
	* Operations and recruiting
		* Suggestions for Christina on how to run things.  ;) 
		* is it possible to find a time for one meeting instead of two? -> Christina will pursue
* Walk-ons: please add additional topics below
	* Old etherpads: 
		* How should we archive the old pre- and post-workshop etherpads? Should there just be a link to the new sessions? Anything else? 
		* Christina will "archive" these
	* Bug BBQ
		* (Bill - async bbq update as I need to bail on this meeting, sorry):
		* Maintainers are busy making milestones to indicate what needs doing before v 5.4
		* event website is ready to go
		* public launch w/ Tiffany's blog post, this week(ish)
		* Christina's suggestion: add a google hangout on air little "how to submit a pull request" session (will email B/T and organize)
		* how will the online collective group be organized and communicate?

New discussion section etherpad: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
