![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2018-04-21

__Time:__ 13:00 & 22:00 UTC

## Co-Chairs

* Toby Hodges (1st meeting)
* Kari Jordan (1st & 2nd meeting)

<details>
  <summary><strong>:raised_hand: Attending</strong></summary>

</details>

***

<details>
<summary><strong>
:+1: Updates from Mentoring Committee:
</strong></summary>
<ul>
<li>We are looking for a new <em>co-chair</em> of mentoring! Apply at: <a href="https://goo.gl/forms/QWSEBD2yGu3Qcy8m1">this link</a></li>
</ul>
</details>

***

<details>
<summary><strong>
:tada: Updates from the Executive Council:
</strong></summary>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/05/ec-report/">EC Report</a></li>
</ul>
</details>

***

<details>
<summary><strong>
:clap: Mentoring Groups (Kari)
</strong></summary>
<ul>
<li>Will be sending out a poll on May 28th to schedule a "power check-in"</li>
<li>Groups are in full swing. <a href="http://pad.software-carpentry.org/mentoring-groups">See this etherpad</a></li>
</ul> 
</details>

***

<details>
<summary><strong>
:iphone: Community Calls (Christina)
</strong></summary>
</details>

***

<details>
<summary><strong>
:movie_camera: New Themed discussions
</strong></summary>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion">Recruiting</a> June discussion leaders! </li>
<li>Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions</li>
<li>If you see a new person who signed up to host/co-host with you, please reach out to them!</li>
</ul>

<ul>
<li>How should we organise/announce more themed discussion sessions</li>
<ul>
<li>Toby would like to organise more of these themed sessions, after the success of the pilot scheme. </li>
<ul>
<li>Questions that need to be answered:</li>
<li>How should they fit into the schedule?</li>
<li>How do we advertise them?</li>
<li>How do we engage the wider instructor community with them?</li>
<ul>
<li>Toby will write a blogpost. Also coordinate with Martin to add some sessions to the etherpad when he first puts them up.</li>
<li>Kari: having a list of suggested themes takes the pressure off a (potential) host - hopefully can get people excited about running them and being a host in future.</li>
<ul>
<li>One per week, rotating through each timeslot. </li>
<li>Will need to update the title of the session in the community calendar, to help people find out about the sessions.</li>
</ul></ul></ul></ul>
</details>

***

<details>
<summary><strong>
:family: Mentoring at CarpentryCon
</strong></summary>
<ul>
<li>Kari & Toby will lead a breakout session on mentoring at CarpentryCon!</li.
<li>Summary of plan for session <a href="https://github.com/carpentries/carpentrycon/blob/master/Sessions/2018-05-31/12-Breakout-12-Mentoring/Abstract.md">here:</a> </li>
<ul>
<li>Toby and Kari plan to use this opportunity (the session and the conference in general) to recuit new members for this subcommittee.</li>
</ul>
</ul>
</details>

***

<details>
<summary><strong>
:loop: Discussion Host Feedback
</strong></summary>
<ul>
<li>Update on Host Questionnaire: <a href=" https://docs.google.com/forms/d/14lhvSviLMikgidMyBke-cheBiD73_FoorDLso3KfViY/edit">form for hosts</a> to fill out after a discussion session</li>
<li>It automatically sends an email to checkout@carpentries.org with the list of participants from question 7. </li>
</ul>
</details>

***

<details>
<summary><strong>
:thought_balloon: Brainstorm Subcommittee Projects
</strong></summary>
<ul>
<li>Toby: Contributor profiles</li>
<ul>
<li>These would be similar to "learner profiles", with the aim of giving newly-certified instructors an insight into how to get more involved in the community in whatever way they want to (and how easy it is). Could write profiles for: mentors; mentees; lesson maintainers; executive council members; etc...</li>
</ul>
<li>Malvika: would a checklist be more helpful? i.e. can you do this & this? are you interested in this & this?</li>
<ul>
<li>Toby: this could also work but would want to avoid giving people the impression that they have to tick every box to qualify.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>Malvika: you could use the conference to gather real profiles and post those?</li>
<li>Toby: +1 this is nice and would also work
Develop training for mentors (similar to Maintainers and Trainers training)</li>
<li>Coaching instructors who had “not so good” feedback on their post-workshop surveys</li>
<li>Running mentoring group sessions in lieu of discussion sessions</li>
</ul></ul>
</details>

***

<details>
<summary><strong>
:smiley_cat: Closing Ideas
</strong></summary>
<ul>
<li>Mentoring Committee Wishlist</li>
<ul>
<li>In the ideal world - what would the mentoring committee look like to you?</li>
<ul>
<li>Develop bylaws - create continuity between transitions </li>
<li>Discuss how to vote for new positions </li>
<li>Who can host discussions? (Should we have requirements)</li>
<li>Proposal: Read protocol and be a certified instructor</li>
<li>Juan: I think maybe a commitee partly in "flux" working on mini projects. Doing reflecting planning cycles...  Secondly, there are normal standard agenda items that will be part of a status quo.</li>
<ul>
<li>What my experience is thus far is that the mentoring commitee facilitates / assist new members to join and get involved with the community as they provide opportunity to become more involved in an organic way</li>
</ul>
<li>Tobin: as a well-advertised place that instructors can go to for help. I had a lot of local support, but i can see it being hard for trainers who don't have more experience geographically close.</li>
<li>Jamie: MC is a place where instructors can turn to for feedback, help, and to share problems/issues they may be facing as an instructor - MC hears these issues and works together to create solutions i.e. through Juan's suggestion of "mini projects" like the onboarding doc</li>
<li>Toby: a friendly group of people interested in making becoming/being an instructor easier and more enjoyable. It should be clear that this is a subcommittee that anyone can join, and meetings that people should feel free to drop in on, without any expectation that they will keep returning forever i.e. attendance does not equal/require "membership". (PS are we likely to change the name? It's a bit strange to me that we don't (actively) do much mentoring. This almost stopped me from coming to the meetings originally - I didn't/don't feel experienced enough to be mentoring others!)</li>
<li>ML: In order to build sustainability in a group - rotations are needed! Have parties (or some form of recognition) to take a moment to acknoweldge the service of our community members. </li>
<li>EB: We can have the admin take the information</li>
<li>UPDATE TO ONBOARDING DOCUMENT: Send the names in everyone who was present in the discussion (including host and notetaker)</li>
<li>Marian: Experimental instructor discussions once per month</li>
<li>ML & MS: 2018 wishlist = Worst case scenario and how to deal with it (anecdotes from instructors)</li>
</ul></ul></ul>
</details>
