# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: Tuesday, June 14

* 1PM PDT (Western N. America)
* 4PM EDT (Eastern N. America)
* 8PM UTC
* 6AM + 1 day (Brisbane)

Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

Attending

* Erin Becker
* Christina Koch
* Maneesha Sane
* Rayna Harris
* Tiffany Timbers (I have to leave after about 30 min, sorry!)
* Marian Schmidt
* Sue McClatchy
* Tracy Teal (1:15 - sorry I'm late!)

Apologies


## Agenda

Introductions

Recap since past meeting

Main agenda items

* Instructor discussion sessions: (http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
	* Sign-ups for next 4-6 weeks
		* Recruit friends! take note of people who might be interested in 
		co-hosting.  It's more fun with two leaders.  
	* Brief review of procedure/checklists https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/checklists-discussion-sessions.md
	* Suggestions for questions to add to the agenda --> make 
	this a permanent agenda item, discuss
		* Specific instructor requests for resource library videos (to replace 
		questions on communications after two weeks?)
		* Question: how often should we change the rotating (*) "info gathering" 
		Q's? I'll probably be looking at the data once a month, but not sure if we 
		need that long for each set of Qs.
			* How are we differentiating between "standard" questions and temporary
			 questions?  I would think that *every* question we ask should have some 
			 outcome/action it informs
	* To do:
		1. Submit PR or issue to add section on what to do if a session 
		must be cancelled for one reason or another. 
		2. Submit PR or issue to add section about checking to see if a 
		discussion session has reached a maximum number of people 
	* Tips:
		* Maneesha: end on a note asking people what they are most excited about, so 
		that you close on a positive note
		* Rayna: ask trainees throught if they have questions   
* Update on "guiding" project and South African trainees
	* Meeting tomorrow to discuss updates on this
* Discussion: 
	* One theme that's come out of the discussion sessions is how to choose 
	exercises/modules within a lesson to teach, or what order to teach the lessons.  
		* for Data Carpentry - this should not be the case, should be able to do 
		everything.  If people are complaining about this, email Tracy!  
		* Go to lesson maintainers?  Have them highlight particular pieces of the lesson?  
		* Participants motivate which pieces of the lesson you teach
		* If your lessons are too long to be taught in allotted time, must have a 
		roadmap (based on participants) to help you decide what to trim
		* Unix / Git lessons are okay
		* R / Python run wild - everyone has their favorite tool and their favorite ordering
			* Have sample scripts that use the same material.  Python A, Python B, 
			Python C - three different ways to teach the material in 6 hours
			* Do instructors like the idea of having options? Making that 
			decision? --> maybe suggest one way as the "default" way
	* Is there something we could do as the mentoring committee to help out with this?  
	* Ideas from last meeting: 
		* include more in instructor training
		* create an online list/"gallery" of different workshops and/or teaching 
		notes for people to look at
		* Run monthly discussion sessions around the lessons, hosted by maintainer 
		and experienced instructor
		* ...add more
	* Does anyone have interest in taking this on?  
* Changes to AMY: see http://chrismedrela.github.io/discussion
* Bug BBQ follow-up (if any)
	* --> lots of pull requests!  many many times a normal month.  :)
* Adding page on joining the mentoring committee  https://github.com/swcarpentry/website/pull/348  
	* Any other committees that should be added?
	* Add feedback on the page itself - is it clear? anything missing? 

Walk-ons: please add additional topics below

* Note: I (Erin) won't have an update on the discussion session data to discuss, 
meeting with Beth next week. Will send out update by email.
