![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: IDC Leadership Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2020-10-16

__Time:__ 1100 UTC

## :raised_hand: Present
1. Serah Rono / she, her, hers
2. Rohit Goswami / he, him
3. Yared Abera /
4. Annajiat Alim Rasel / he, him
5. Katherine Simeon / she, her, hers
6. Samar Elsheikh/ she, her, hers
7. Caroline F Ajilogba/she, her, hers
8. Maria Prokofieva

***

# Agenda:

### Project ideas you submitted as part of your applications ( 15 min)
1. I would like to continue building on the opening and welcome instructor community that the Carpentries has developed. Specifically, I would like to provide support to multilingual instructors and students who may be teaching and learning in a language that they do not consider native. +1
  - Serah: this is great, there is an internationalisation channel in The Carpentries Slack with information about what has been done so far ( it is mostly technical work), good to design a support program around this effort also look at Carpentries Japan and Carpentries-es work on translations and supporting instructors who tech in languages other than English
  - Maria: this is a good suggestion especially with RStudio initiative to translate resources into main languages
  - Katherine: Thanks Serah to pointing to these resources!! The lesson translations and glossario partially inspired this idea! Some ideas of how this might look are:
      - support/mentorship for those who are translating docs
      - mentorship/discussion sessions for those teaching in non-native language
      - a survey asking multilingual instructors what works and disseminating responses
      - soliciting blog posts from multilingual instructors

2. I would also like to help instructors effectively assess student learning and self-assess their growth as an educator by holding themed discussions on how to generate evidence of teaching effectiveness.+1 +1+1

3. Individual and group Mentoring, adopt-a-group mentoring, group project within the community +1+1 +1
  - Maria: I am already running one and this is great as you target specific people and specific community so can tailor your approach, but it needs to be a "centralised" version so do not have to re-invent the vehicle with the approach and organisation
  - Caroline: I see some of the projects are overlapping so we can merge-1.3, 1.8, 1.11 +1
  - Katherine: We might consider implementing mentoring circles that are based on specific topics (i.e., a group that exchanges ideas on online teaching)
  - We need to segment and cater to the needs, experience, barriers, expectations, and dreams of the instructors at different stages +1+1 +1 (Maria:this is very similar to 1.3)
  - Annajiat: we can facilitate coaching/mentorship for growth within the community and show a pathway for:
      - Applicants who did not go through training yet
      - Those who did not participate in discussions yet
      - Those who did not make contributions to lesion materials yet
      - Those who completed training but did not conduct any sessions yet
      - Those who have about 1 year of experience
      - Those who have less than 5 years of experience.
      - More experienced and former instructors

4. Maintain a safe platforms for bringing instructors together, and enhance their interaction worldwide.+1

5. Match members by background to strengthening the connections/network.+1 (similar to 1.13)

6. Help building sub-communities to adopt more ideas of growing the community at a wider range of fields. +1+1
  - Rohit: Does this relate to adding new content? (the incubator)

7. Organize activities e.g. one that gets member to work on projects that helps the community (in teams) and assign prizes for winners. Activities can be writing blog posts about their experiences, or developing new specialized lessons.?
  - Rohit: Not sure (prize-based) incentivization is good for our community. Had the opportunity to work with Zhian on a post and it was great. Perhaps find alternative ways to offer recognition. Prizes might attract the wrong group of +1
  - Samar: suggested this with an aim to get people to engage more, might make things more interactive
  - Annajiat: it could be something like member of the week/month, could be contributor badge or list+1
  - Rohit: AMY could be leveraged for more provenance tracking which could then fit into an automated profile generation
  - Serah: determine how to scope this project in a way that recognises contributions while upholding our values https://carpentries.org/values/

8. Matching instructors by region to connect them locally.+1 (similar to 1.7 and 1.13)+1+1

9. Identifying and meeting the learner's expectations through the pre/post surveys and more specific surveys. +1?+1+1+1+1
  - Rohit: Am not sure we can realistically match higher expectations (discussion needed)

10. Instructors often seems disconnected and with work related commitments, the role of the community may not be evident. Local communities needs to actively engage with members - not just to have them on the list, but actively set up links and connections, suggest "pet projects" to team up members. Some regular meetups (even zoom), not particularly teaching related - broader to cater all. +1

11. Also get engaged more with school and university students! - "you learn best when you teach" is a good approach :) +1+1+1
  - Rohit: I believe our learners might benefit from being a bit younger in some cases (practice early makes for faster perfection)+1

### Outstanding questions from the onboarding about your roles as IDC Leaders (15 min)

* Annajiat:
  - Does trainer development fall under our responsibility?
  - Do we join in trainers meeting and work with them directly?

* Yared: how can we know more about how our roles interact with each other

* Carol:
  - do I need to focus on demo discussions in addition to community discussions?
  - community discussions Etherpad is already populated

* Provide mentoring planning notes in the etherpad

### Suggestions for how to run cohort activities in the coming months ( 15 min)

### Questions for IDC Leaders to brainstorm on and respond to asynchronously.
*Your input is invaluable, be as detailed as you possibly can be, prefixing your thoughts, follow-up questions and suggestions with your name under each question like so: Serah: I think... (5 min)* **Provide feedback/responses by Oct. 23**

1. **Are instructors teaching as per instructor training? What opportunities can we design to make accountability and/or refresher courses possible for instructors?**
  - Rohit: For assesing this, I think we need to start taking feedback from the helpers and the co-instructors, or anyone who has experience with the Carpentries. This is important, and currently not covered, asking the learners might not do the same thing, since they might not know what to expect from a Carpentries workshop.
  - Rohit: Note that this might create a "tattletale" culture which is awful
  - Rohit: What opportunities do we have? Given that currently we have the instructors "retire" (require retraining) if they are inactive for a year, we do not have any leeway in a way for retraining those who teach regularly.
  - Katherine: Make a yearly check-in survey for instructors to assess needs ?
  - Katherine: Make an instructor practices "cheat sheet" with links to useful teaching resources+1

2. **What are the instructors' experiences of teaching online? Where are the gaps/where would they like additional information?**
  - Rohit: I have taught exclusively online, and I have seen a lot of variation and might have a good idea about this, but it'd be better to formally get inputs from the instructors. I think we need to bring in more ed-tech! I use Jamboard, and the learners seem to respond to it. I also realized later that many instructors are unaware of the full set of resources, like the dplyr slides.+1
  - Katherine: Can we administer a survey to see what instructors' experiences are?+1
    - Caroline: Also to include challenges and how to forestall them

3. **Do instructors feel prepared/supported to teach Carpentries workshops? Where are the gaps/where would they like additional information?**
  - Rohit: I do believe the on-boarding process is friendly enough for the instructors to feel comfortable. The only gap is that often the "bonding phase" between the instructors and the institute is not covered by any of our content. It'd be good to set up some content which discusses, say, the Eventbrite setup, who/when/where the sites are set up, etc.+1
  - Caroline: There can be collective/group mentoring and or a mentor to an instructor, and timeline is given, it could be piloted and see if it works before going fullscale

### Next Steps
* low-hanging fruit, what to focus on between now and the next meeting?
  - Carol: discuss badging project+1
  - discuss what everyone is doing as part of their role, any challenges, and opportunities to collaborate

* When to meet next?
  - November 13 and December 11

* Notes to IDC repo
  - Katherine will do this by October 26
  - Rohit: Converting notes for storing in the Github repo
  - Rohit: A good first approximation is to export as html and then use pandoc to generate markdown
    - `pandoc instructor-development.html -o instdev.md'
    - Rohit: It isn't perfect, but a better starting point than plaintext!!
