# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 02/11/2015

Times: 5pm GMT and 9pm UTC.

## Attending

### Afternoon

-   Daniel Chen
-   Karin Lagesen
-   Maneesha Sane
-   Rayna Harris
-   Sue McClatchy

### Evening

-   Belinda Weaver
-   Bill Mills
-   Daniel Chen
-   Kate Hertweck

## Apologies

-   Carol Willing
-   Christina Koch
-   Jonah Duckles
-   Mariela Perignon
-   Michael Sarahan
-   Phil Rosenfield
-   Raniere Silva
-   Sheldon McKay
-   Tiffany Timbers
-   Tracy Teal

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions

-   Need volunteer for November 10
    -   Morning (10:00 EDT): Kate Hertweck Rayna Harris Sue McClatchy
    -   Evening (19:00 EDT): Christina Koch
-   Need volunteer for November 24
    -   Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers Rayna Harris
    -   Evening (19:00 EDT): Kate Hertweck
-   Need volunteer for December 8 (this will be the last one in 2015)
    -   Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers Rayna Harris
    -   Evening (19:00 EDT):Bill Mills
-   Need volunteer for January 12 (this will be the first one in 2015)
    -   Morning (10:00 EDT):
    -   Evening (19:00 EDT):

## Pre Workshop Help Session

Progress made by Kate, Rayna and Christina
is described at https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h8GB8fm1-ngdeVNnU5abKX_SMxWLLXYSCiWFijqxyxU/edit.

Will send out a blanket invite to people who will be teaching in next 4-8 weeks to join.

Will help with beginner instructors first then more experienced instructors last when working through the hangout.

Include common questions, pitfalls, reminders for before the workshop.

Example: options available, such as modified gapminder, new capstone exercises, other materials (videos, quizes) consolodated for redistribution.

How to invite?

Send out email to those that are teaching in the next 6-8 weeks period. Maneesha is actively pairing experienced novice instructors with more experienced ones.

Suggestion is to do blanket invite so that even people who have taught before can get an opportunity refresh how things are done.  We should ask how many workshops people have taught, and whether they have been the lead instructor, and then take the more experienced later in the call. That way the newbies will be clued in when we start discussing more advanced things with those instructors.

Kate will start working on scheduling options to pilot these sessions in December

Maneesha will make sure you  list of instructors scheduled to teach in next 6 weeks (Dec-Jan?)

## (Virtual) Instructor Retreat Planning

Date: November 14

Site: https://swcarpentry.github.io/instructor-retreat-2015/

Announcement/Blog post: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/09/instructor-helper-retreat.html

Leader's meetup digest: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/10/retreat-site-planning.html

number of interesting activity ideas

also plans for deliverables:

feedback survey (see below)

blog posts from session leaders & site hosts

bluejean hangout last week, 12 pepole on the call.  Bill and Tiffany wanted the format to be very flexible, every group can do things how they want.

Some will have local hangouts to talk about specific lessons, more domain specific.

Suggestion: possibly send email to discuss with update, seems people are wondering how things are going.

Tasks needing help:

-   Post Retreat Survey: what worked / what didn't / how can we improve next year?
-   Hosts
-   Participants
-   Could have a set of questions that participants would be asked to answer (probably done by Bill, Tiffany or Tracy)
-   Participate! Would be awesome to have members of the mentoring subcommittee jump in to conversations to answer questions from the subcommittee.

## Instructor Training

Announcement: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/09/rebooting-instructor-training.html

newer post: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/10/call-for-instructor-training.html

### Selection of groups for the two-day version

Waiting applications.

How to get people through the process?

-   need to assess where sticking points are
-   possibly time of year
-   possibly unclear on group size requirements (or lack there of)

### Mentoring New Instructors + Mini-Lessons

Karin is awaiting info from various sources, once that is in, the proposal will be sent out for review by those participating in the meeting about this, before it goes to both steering committees. 

## Extra topics

None.
