# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: Tuesday, May 31

* 1PM PDT (Western N. America)
* 4PM EDT (Eastern N. America)
* 8PM UTC
* 6AM + 1 day (Brisbane)

Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

Attending

* Christina Koch
* Kate Hertweck
* Erin Becker
* Maneesha Sane
* Rayna Harris


Apologies

* Belinda Weaver
* Tiffany Timbers
* Karin Lagesen

## Agenda

* Confirm agenda
* Introductions
* Recap since past meetings
* Main agenda items
	* Instructor discussion sessions: (http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
		* Sign-ups for next 4-6 weeks
		* Belinda: Should I get South African trainees to sign up for lesson discussions 
		here - time zones might be challenging - they are UTC +2 - or schedule and 
		lead these separately myself ? I am worried Blue Jeans won't work for them -
		 see my notes below.
		* Review procedure --> Christina will add new step of adding notes to 
		google doc (https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/119)
		* How's it been going?  --> Good, so far!  
		* Add two questions to agenda? --> add these for the next few weeks to gather data.  :)
			* How did instructors share roles/responsibilities?  Was there a 
			designated "lead instructor" or did you act as co-instructors?
			* Anything about instructor/host communication that could have been better 
			facilitated?  
	* Common theme: how to choose exercises/modules within a lesson to teach, or what order to teach the lessons
		* Something to revisit in the future.  Various ideas:
		* include more in instructor training
		* create an online list/"gallery" of different workshops and/or teaching notes for people to look at
		* Run monthly discussion sessions around the lessons, hosted by maintainer and experienced instructor
	* Recruiting more discussion hosts
		* individual emails
		* ask people at the end of the session, if they're interested
		* Current procedure: email/talk to the person, then send their name/email to Christina
* Walk-ons: please add additional topics below
	* Guiding project update from Belinda: 
		* I had my first meetup on 25 May with four of the new South African 
		trainee instructors. Terrible connection problems meant we spent 75 
		minutes trying to be heard. Only one person could be consistently seen 
		and heard on Blue Jeans. A Google hangout was marginally better - I could 
		hear two people, and one other over a very poor phone line - but I am now 
		testing Zoom to see if that delivers a better result. We will not be able 
		to practice teach in the current environment as screen sharing failed for 
		everyone on both Blue Jeans and Hangouts - maybe a bandwidth problem? I 
		have asked Anelda to investigate whether there is better wifi or whether 
		there are fixed connections available. Really disappointing start for the 
		people there. Fingers crossed for next time.
	* Where to go if you'd like to be involved? --> email Anelda

