# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 21 Sept 2015

Time: 4 pm and 9 pm UTC

## Attending

Morning
-   Raniere Silva
- 	Daniel Chen
-   Kate Hertweck
-	  Sheldon McKay
-   Phil Rosenfield
-   Christina Koch
-	  Sue McClatchy
-	  Rayna Harris
-	  Karin Lagesen
-   Tiffany Timbers
-   Bill Mills

Evening
-   Raniera Silva
-   Belinda Weaver
-   Mariela Perignon

## Debriefing sessions

-   Volunteers for Sept 15 (already occurred)
    -   Morning: Kate Hertweck, Sheldon McKay
    -   Evening: Tiffany Timbers, Raniere Silva
-	Volunteers for Sept 29
    -   Morning: Kate Hertweck Rayna Harris
    -   Evening: Bill Mills, Tiffany Timbers

## Pre-workshop help sessions
-   These help sessions will be for instructors to ask questions and receive other help in preparation for teaching workshops. The focus will be on developing lessons, choosing exercises/capstones. 
-   Given revamping of instructor training, we may need to reinforce current practices emphasized in new training. 
-   Need proposal for committee to view/vote for implementation
-   KH, RH, and CK volunteered to put this together.

## (Virtual) Instructor Retreat Planning
-   Date: November 14
-   [Site](https://swcarpentry.github.io/instructor-retreat-2015/)
-   [Announcement/Blog post](https://github.com/swcarpentry/site/pull/1089)
-   Blog post and social media push will start Tuesday at 10 am: help and retweet throughout day!
-   Need more local sites. If possible, [open an issue for new sites](https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-retreat-2015/issues), or ask instructors or community members to serve as site leadership
-   Discussion:
    -   This is mainly for instructors, but learners are welcome as well.
    -   Use discussion listserv to solicit participants from your area.
    -   ACTION: Raniere will ask Greg about targeting geographic groups using AMY and advertising retreat to instructor training waiting list.
    -   Request sessions by opening an [issue](https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-retreat-2015/issues)

## Instructor Training
-   Announcement about [changes to instructor training](http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/09/rebooting-instructor-training.html).
-   For multi-week online class and two-day online class, students will be selected from the waiting list to submit applications to participate
-   Need to clarify procedures for selecting participants
-   MOTION: make procedures for selection to go public from beginning as a pull request to the [board site](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/)
-   Discussion:
    -   KL notes that we should not have discussions about specific people publicly available online, prefers to publish criteria used but not specific conversations
    -   SM: What is the difference between eligibility and selection criteria?
    -   KL: eligibility criteria are already assigned (specific group of people are invited), then they perform some tasks (comment on teaching techniques; send PR including info on work to do). AFTER this, selection will occur.
    -   CK: Perhaps need disclaimer that eligibility does not ensure selection.
    -   RS: Selection criteria include preference for instructors where we currently have small communities (South America, South Africa, some regions in US/UK)
    -   KL: Criteria also include preference for folks who are from underrepresented groups, bilingual or interested in translating lessons to other languages.
    -   RS: This will not apply to instructor training in Australia.
-   VOTING: 7 affirmative, 2 negative
-   ACTION: Write procedures and vote again at next meeting

## Mentoring New Instructors and Mini-lessons
-   Need procedures, will be public from beginning as PR to [board GitHub](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/)
-   RS: Procedures will be implemented next year, we'll need them specified before then
-   Volunteers: KL, BM (after retreat), SM
-   KL: Need to decide how to assign people to groups, number of people, frequency of meeting (online or in person), streamlining procedures, connecting with mentors, relevance of expertise of mentors, what are criteria for good mentors
-   RS: Timeline is as follows: instructors will be trained during the rest of this year. Mentoring will start after completion of this training. Groups will be 3-4 people, with one mentor for each group, helping them work through lessons (including mini lesson proposal, below), give feedback. We need clear workflow for how to complete instructor training and then start mentoring program.
-   KL: Timeline should be as condensed as possible to help movement from trainee to full instructor
-   MP: This needs to be tied to mechanism to place instructors in their first workshops (not let too much time lag).
-   TT: This can build from proposal for mini-lessons [submitted but never merged](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/43).
-   KL: What is the relationship between the mentoring program and mini lessons? Also help session proposal?
-   CK: We need pre-workshop help sessions now, but can also incorporate into main proposal. These sessions need to accomodate folks from old instructor training as well as new training.
-   KL: Pre-workshop help sessions should be general to allow folks to think about customizing workshops, etc.
-   ACTION: Write one proposal for mini-workshop/instructor mentoring (separate proposal as described above for pre-workshop help sessions).
